summary

How Big Data is defined by the Vs: Velocity, Volume, Variety, Veracity, and Value.

statistic probability basic
programming
statistical distribution

structured unstructured
domain specific
presenting & storytelling
company dna
curiosity

statistical algorithm
ml algorithm
store large amounts of data
manipulate and apply algorithm
hadoop & spark for big data
airflow, kafka

tools seldom to deployment
prometheus for monitoring

Machine learning models can be divided into three basic classes: supervised learning, unsupervised learning, and reinforcement learning.
1. Supervised learning is one of the most commonly used type of machine learning models.
provides input data and the correct outputs.
The model tries to identify relationships and dependencies between the input data and the correct output.
Generally speaking, supervised learning is used to solve regression and classification problems.
Let’s look at an example for each problem type: Regression models are used to predict a numeric, or “real," value.
For example, given information about past home sales, such as geographic location, size, number of bedrooms, and sales price, you can train a model to predict the estimated sales price for other homes with similar characteristics.
Classification models are used to predict whether something belongs to a category, or “class." For example, given a set of emails along with a designation of whether or not they are considered spam, an algorithm can be trained to identify unsolicited emails.

2. In unsupervised learning, the data is not labelled by a human.
The models must analyze the data and try to identify patterns and structure within the data based only on the characteristics of the data itself.
Clustering and anomaly detection are two examples of this learning style.
Clustering models are used to divide each record of a data set into one of a small number of similar groups.
An example of a clustering model could be providing purchase recommendations for an e-commerce store based on past shopping behavior and the content of a shopping basket.
Anomaly detection identifies outliers in a data set, such as fraudulent credit card transactions or suspicious online log-in attempts.

3. The third type of learning, reinforcement learning, is loosely based on the way human beings and other organisms learn.
Think about a mouse in a maze.
If the mouse gets to the end of the maze it gets a piece of cheese.
This is the “reward” for completing a task.
The mouse learns – through trial and error – how to get through the maze to get as much cheese as it can.
In a similar way, a reinforcement learning model learns the best set of actions to take, given its current environment, in order to get the most reward over time.
This type of learning has recently been very successful in beating the best human players in games such as go, chess, and popular strategy video games.

4. Deep learning is a specialized type of machine learning.
It refers to a general set of models and techniques that tries to loosely emulate the way the human brain solves a wide range of problems.
It is commonly used to analyze natural language, both spoken and text, as well as images, audio, and video, to forecast time series data and much more.
Deep learning has had a lot of recent success in these and other areas and is therefore becoming an increasingly popular and important tool for data science.
Deep learning typically requires very large data sets of labeled data to train a model, is compute-intensive, and usually requires special purpose hardware to achieve acceptable training times.